Scala governance page proposal (#122)
scalacenter/advisoryboard: proposals/030-governance-page.md

---
date: April 25th 2023
---

# The governance page for Scala

## Proposer

Proposed by Krzysztof Romanowski, VirtusLab, April 25th 2023

## Abstract

> Scala as a language and its ecosystem are maintained, managed, and developed by various individuals and organizations. The teams and responsibilities are changing over time and, in general, get confusing the users. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scala as a language and its ecosystem are maintained, managed, and developed by various individuals and organizations. The teams and responsibilities are changing over time and, which can cause confusion for the community.
```

As an open-source community, Scala should be built on transparency, yet currently, it may not be clear who is making decisions or maintaining given parts of the ecosystem.

> This proposal is inspired by [Rust Governance](https://www.rust-lang.org/governance) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This proposal is inspired by the [Rust Governance](https://www.rust-lang.org/governance) page.
```

## Proposal

We propose to create a governance page listing:
- brief description and links to all decision-making processes like SIP
- teams maintaining the language and core tools (build tools, IDEs, and similar), including key positions

> - key initiatives and working groups (like Scala tooling summit)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- key initiatives and working groups (like the Scala tooling summit)
```

We are aware that 'core tools' or 'key initiatives' are not precise, and defining what should be included is a part of work needed to implement this proposal. 

The list may be expanded with key libraries and frameworks but creating such a list may be more complex, so we suggest discussing such an extension once the page is created.

The governance page should also link to instructions on how its content could be changed (e.g. when there is a new team or a given tool could be considered core).

To ensure transparency, the page should mention affiliations of people and teams.

## Cost

There is an upfront cost to design and implement the page that may vary, deepening how detailed the page would be. It would involve a substantial amount of communication and coordination, but we believe this is aligned with what Scala Center is already doing. 

Maintenance of the governance page should be similar to maintaining [SIP](https://github.com/scala/improvement-proposals) and [advisory board](https://github.com/scalacenter/advisoryboard) repositories.

## Timescales

> Given the amount of communication and coordination involved, we expect that creating such a page may take a few months. Given that we finally have ScalaDays this year, Seattle or Madrid edition may be a good deadline for the first version of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given the amount of communication and coordination involved, we expect that creating such a page may take a few months. Given that we finally have ScalaDays this year, the Seattle or Madrid edition may be a good deadline for the first version of the page.
```
